docs: add sql editor section (#64)
bytebase/bytebase.com: docs/features/sql-editor/run-queries.md

---
title: Run/Explain Queries
order: 30402
---

> # Run/Explain Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Run and EXPLAIN Query
```

<hint-block type="info">

Please note that SQL Editor only supports running SELECT queries now. SQL will detect your SQL queries. If you are running DDL or DML change queries, it will prompt you to create issues at Console.

</hint-block>

> ## Run Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run query
```

> Click the `Run` button or use the shortcut key `(⌘ + Enter)` to run your queries in SQL Editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the `Run` button or use the shortcut key `(⌘ + Enter)` to run your queries in the SQL Editor.
```

> Use semicolons to separate multiple SQL queries. SQL Editor only runs the first query now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple SQL queries separated by semicolons, SQL Editor will only run the first query for now.
```

> ## Explain Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Explain query
```

> ## Explain Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## EXPLAIN query
```

> SQL Editor provides a button next to the `Run` one to run Explain queries. You can click it or use the shortcut key `(⌘ + E)` to run Explain SQL queries instead of writing them manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQL Editor provides an `Explain` button to run EXPLAIN on the selected query. You can click it or use the shortcut key `(⌘ + E)` instead of prepending EXPLAIN manually.
```

Reviewer: The reason to remove "next to the `Run`" is because if we later change the UX to move the button, we won't need to update this doc.

> ```sql

Reviewer: This section seems to be redundant since we are providing the UI option to run EXPLAIN.
